buck did not read the newspapers, or he would have known that trouble was brewing, not alone for himself, but for every tidewater dog, strong of muscle and with warm, long hair, from puget sound to san diego. because men, groping in the arctic darkness, had found a yellow metal, and because steamship and transportation companies were booming the find, thousands of men were rushing into the northland. these men wanted dogs, and the dogs they wanted were heavy dogs, with strong muscles by which to toil, and furry coats to protect them from the frost. buck lived at a big house in the sun-kissed santa clara valley. judge miller's place, it was called. it stood back from the road, half-hidden among the trees, through which glimpses could be caught of the wide cool veranda that ran around its four sides. the house was approached by graveled driveways which wound about through wide-spreading lawns and under the interlacing boughs of tall poplars. at the rear things were on even a more spacious scale than at the front. there were great stables, where a dozen grooms and boys held forth, rows of vine-clad servants' cottages, an endless and orderly array of outhouses, long grape arbors, green pastures, orchards, and berry patches. then there was the pumping plant for the artesian well, and the big cement tank where judge miler's boys took their morning plunge and kept cool in the hot afternoon. and over this great demesne buck ruled. here he was born, and here he had lived the four years of his life. it was true, there were other dogs. there could not but be other dogs on so vast a place, but they did not count. they came and went, resided in the populous kennels, or lived obscurely in the recesses of the house after the fashion of toots, the japanese pug, or ysabel, the mexican hairless, strange creatures that rarely put nose out of doors or set foot to ground. on the other hand, there were the fox terriers, a score of them at least, who yelped fearful promises at toots and ysabel looking out of the windows at them and protected by a legion of housemaids armed with brooms and mops. but buck was neither house dog nor kennel dog. the whole realm was his. he plunged into the swimming tank or went hunting with the judge's sons;i he escorted mollie and alice, the judge's daughters, on long twilight or early morning rambles; on wintry nights he lay at the judge's feet before the roaring library fire; he carried the judge's grandsons on his back, or rolled them in the grass, and guarded their footsteps through wild adventures down to the fountain in the stable yard, and even beyond, where the paddocks were, and the berry patches. among the terriers he stalked imperiously, and toots and ysabel he utterly ignored, for he was king--king over all creeping, crawling, flying things of judge miller's place, humans included. his father, elmo, a huge st. bernard, had been the judge's inseparable companion, and buck bid fair to follow in the way of his father. he was not so large--he weighed only one hundred and forty pounds--for his mother, shep, had been a scotch shepherd dog. nevertheless, one hundred and forty pounds, to which was added the dignity that comes of good living and universal respect, enabled him to carry himself in right royal fashion. during the four years since his puppyhood he had lived the life of a sated aristocrat; he had a fine pride in himself, was even a trifle egotistical, as country gentlemen sometimes become because of their insular situation. but he had saved himself by not becoming a mere pampered house dog. hunting and kindred outdoor delights had kept down the fat and hardened his muscles; and to him, as to the cold-tubbing races, the love of water had been a tonic and a health preserver. and this was the manner of dog buck was in the fall of 1897, when the klondike strike dragged men from all the world into the frozen north. but buck did not read the newspapers, and he did not know that manuel, one of the gardener's helpers, was an undesirable acquaintance. manuel had one besetting sin. he loved to play chinese lottery. also, in his gambling, he had one besetting weakness--faith in a system; and this made his damnation certain. for to play a system requires money, while the wages of a gardener's helper do not lap over the needs of a wife and numerous progeny. b the judge was at a meeting of the raisin growers' association, and the boys were busy organizing an athletic club, on the memorable night of manuel's treachery. no one saw him and buck go off through the orchard on what buck imagined was merely a stroll. and with the exception of a solitary man, no one saw them arrive at the little flag station known as college park. this man talked with manuel, and money chinked between them. "you might wrap up the goods before you deliver them," the stranger said gruffly, and manuel doubled a piece of stout rope around buck's neck under the collar. "twist it, and you'll choke him plenty," said manuel, and the stranger grunted a ready affirmative. buck had accepted the rope with quiet dignity. to be sure, it was an unwonted performance but he had learned to trust in men he knew, and to give them credit for a wisdom that outreached his own. but when the ends of the rope were placed in the stranger's hands, he growled menacingly. he had merely intimated his displeasure, in his pride believing that to intimate was to command. but to his surprise the rope tightened around his neck, shutting off his breath. in a quick rage he sprang at the man, who met him halfway, grappled him close by the throat, and with a deft twist threw him over on his back. then the rope tightened mercilessly, while buck struggled in a fury, his tongue lolling out of his mouth and his great chest panting futilely. never in all his life had he been so vilely treated, and never in all his life had he been so angry. but his strength ebbed, his eyes glazed, and he knew nothing when the train was flagged and the two men threw him into the baggage car. part ii perrault grinned. considering that the price of dogs had been boomed skyward by the unwonted demand, it was not an unfair sum for so fine an animal. the canadian government would be no loser, nor would its dispatches travel the slower. perrault knew dogs, when he looked at buck he knew that he was one in a thousand -- "one in ten thousand," he commented mentally. buck saw money pass between them, and was not surprised when curly, a good-natured newfoundland, and he were led away by the little weazened man. that was the last he saw of the man in the red sweater, and as curly and he looked at receding seattle from the deck of the narwhal, it was the last he saw of the warm southland. curly and he were taken below by perrault and turned over to a black-faced giant called francois. perrault was a french canadian, and swarthy; but francois was a french canadian half-breed, and twice as swarthy. they were a new kind of men to buck (of which he was destined to see many more), and while he developed no affection for them, he none the less grew honestly to respect them. he speedily learned that perrault and francois were fair men, calm and impartial in administering justice, and too wise in the way of dogs to be fooled by dogs. in the 'tween-decks of the narwhal, buck and curly joined two other dogs. one of them was a big, snow-white fellow from spitzbergen who had been brought away by a whaling captain, and who had later accompanied a geological survey into the barrens. he was friendly, in a treacherous sort of way, smiling into one's face the while he meditated some underhand trick, as, for instance, when he stole from buck's food at the first meal. as buck sprang to punish him, the lash of francois' whip sang through the air, reaching the culprit first; and nothing remained to buck but to recover the bone. that was fair of francois, he decided, and the half-breed began his rise in buck's estimation. the other dog made no advances, nor received any; also, he did not attempt to steal from the newcomers. he was a gloomy, morose fellow, and he showed curly plainly that all he desired was to be left alone, and further, that there would be trouble if he were not left alone. "dave" he was called, and he ate and slept, or yawned between times, and took interest in nothing, not even when the narwhal crossed queen charlotte sound and rolled and pitched and bucked like a thing possessed. when buck and curly grew excited, half-wild with fear, he raised his head as though annoyed, favored them with a incurious glance, yawned, and went to sleep again. day and night the ship throbbed to the tireless pulse of the propeller, and though one day was very like another, it was apparent to buck that the weather was steadily growing colder. at last, one morning, the propeller was quiet, and the narwhal was pervaded with an atmosphere of excitement. he felt it, as did the other dogs, and knew that a change was at hand. francois leashed them and brought them on deck. at the first step upon the cold surface, buck's feet sank into a white mushy something very like mud. he sprang back with a snort. more of this white stuff was falling through the air. he shook himself, but more of it fell upon him. he sniffed it curiously, then licked some up on his tongue. it bit like fire, and the next instant was gone. this puzzled him. he tried it again, with the same result. the onlookers laughed uproariously, and he felt ashamed, he knew not why, for it was his first snow.